Cybersecurity

Google Cybersecurity Certificate Portfolio Activity: Conduct a security audit

Client: Botium Toys

Botium Toys: Audit scope and goals 


Summary: Perform an audit of Botium Toys’ cybersecurity program. The audit needs to align current business practices with industry 
standards and best practices. The audit is meant to provide mitigation recommendations for vulnerabilities found that are classified 
as “high risk,” and present an overall strategy for improving the security posture of the organization. The audit team needs to 
document their findings, provide remediation plans and efforts, and communicate with stakeholders.

Scope: (To understand the audit scope, review the security audit reading. Note that the scope is not constant from audit to audit. 
However, once the scope of the audit is clearly defined, only items within the scope should be audited. In this scenario, the scope is 
defined as the entire security program at Botium Toys. This means all assets need to be assessed alongside internal processes and 
procedures).

Botium Toys' internal IT audit will assess the following:
Current user permissions are set in the following systems: accounting, endpoint detection, firewalls, intrusion detection system, 
security information and event management (SIEM) tool.
Current implemented controls in the following systems: accounting, endpoint detection, firewalls, intrusion detection system, Security 
Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool.
Current procedures and protocols are set for the following systems: accounting, endpoint detection, firewall, intrusion detection 
system, and Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool.
Ensure current user permissions, controls, procedures, and protocols in place align with necessary compliance requirements.
Ensure current technology is accounted for. Both hardware and system access.
  
Goals: (The goal of an audit is the desired deliverables or outcomes. The goal of an audit can be to achieve compliance, to identify 
weaknesses or vulnerabilities within an organization, and/or to understand failures in processes and procedures and correct them. In 
this scenario, the IT manager set the goals. He is expecting a report of the current security posture of the organization and 
recommendations for improving the security posture of the organization, as well as justification to hire additional cybersecurity 
personnel.)

The goals for Botium Toys’ internal IT audit are:
To adhere to the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) 
Establish a better process for their systems to ensure they are compliant 
Fortify system controls
Implement the concept of least permissions when it comes to user credential management 
Establish their policies and procedures, which include their playbooks 
Ensure they are meeting compliance requirements 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Botium Toys: Risk assessment

Current assets
Assets managed by the IT Department include:
● On-premises equipment for in-office business needs
● Employee equipment: end-user devices (desktops/laptops, smartphones), remote workstations, headsets, cables, 
keyboards, mice, docking stations, surveillance cameras, etc.
● Management of systems, software, and services: accounting, telecommunication, database, security, e-commerce, 
and inventory management
● Internet access
● Internal network
● Vendor access management
● Data center hosting services
● Data retention and storage
● Badge readers
● Legacy system maintenance: end-of-life systems that require human monitoring

Risk description
Currently, there is inadequate management of assets. Additionally, Botium Toys does
not have the proper controls in place and may not be compliant with the U.S. and
international regulations and standards.

Control best practices
The first of the five functions of the NIST CSF is Identify. Botium Toys will need to
dedicate resources to managing assets. Additionally, they will need to determine the
impact of the loss of existing assets, including systems, on business continuity.

Risk score
On a scale of 1 to 10, the risk score is 8, which is fairly high. This is due to a lack of
controls and adherence to necessary compliance regulations and standards.

Additional comments
The potential impact from the loss of an asset is rated as medium because the IT department does not know which assets would be lost. 
The likelihood of a lost asset or fines from governing bodies is high because Botium Toys does not have all of the necessary controls 
in place and is not adhering to the required regulations and standards related to keeping customer data private.

